zip 3.0e is a BETA version. Do not distribute outside the Info-ZIP group.

Many ports probably don't work in this beta and Zip 3.0 development so far
has been mainly on Unix, VMS, and Win32 platforms, though some others have
been recently tested.  We hope to get the other ports working by release but
may have to drop support for some ports.



Copyright (c) 1990-2005 Info-ZIP.  All rights reserved.

See the file 'CHANGES' for a detailed list of all changes.

See the accompanying file LICENSE (the contents of which are also
included in unzip.h, zip.h and wiz.h) for terms of use.  If, for
some reason, all of these files are missing, the Info-ZIP license
also may be found at:  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html


Zip 3.0 is a compression and file packaging utility.  It is compatible with
PKZIP 2.04g (Phil Katz ZIP) for MSDOS systems.  There is a companion to zip
called unzip (of course) which you should be able to find the same place
you got zip. See the file 'WHERE' for details on ftp sites and mail
servers.

This version of zip has been ported to a wide array of Unix and other
mainframes, minis, and micros including VMS, OS/2, Minix, MSDOS, Windows NT,
Atari, Amiga, BeOS and VM/CMS. Although highly compatible with PKware's
PKZIP and PKUNZIP utilities of MSDOS fame, our primary objective has been
one of portability and other-than-MSDOS functionality.  Features not found
in the PKWare version include creation of zip files in a pipe or on a
device, VMS, BeOS and OS/2 extended file attributes, conversion from Unix to
MSDOS text file format; and, of course, the ability to run on most of your
favorite operating systems.  And it's free.

See the file WhatsNew for a summary of new features and the file CHANGES for
a detailed list of all changes.

Notes:

Multi-volume support.  This version does not support multi-volume spanned
archives as in pkzip 2.04g, and there is no intention at this point to support
spanned archives, but version 3.0 should support split archives.  A split
archive is an archive split into a set of files, each file a volume, where a
spanned archive is the original multi-floppy archive supported by pkzip 2.0g.
The contents of split and spanned archives are identical and there is a simple
procedure to convert between the formats.  Many current unzips now support
split archives.

Zip64 support.  This version supports Zip64 archives.  These archives use
additional fields to support archives greater than 2 GB and files in archives
over the 2 GB previous limit.  This feature is automatic and the Zip64 fields
will only be used if needed.  A Zip64 archive requires a pkzip 4.5 compatible
unzip.

Installation.  Please read the file INSTALL for information on how to compile
and install zip, zipsplit, zipcloak, and zipnote.  Please read the manual pages
MANUAL.txt, ZIPSPLIT.txt, ZIPCLOAK.txt, and ZIPNOTE.txt for information on
how to use them.  The file "contents" is a complete list of the files
you should have in this distribution but remains missing.  It should be
updated by the release.  Also, if you are using MSDOS, you should read the
note on file formats at the end of the contents file.

Utilities.  At this point zipsplit, zipcloak, and zipnote are not completely
updated to work with large files and may not even work.  They should be
updated by the next beta.

Encryption.  This version supports standard zip encryption.  Until recently
the encryption code was distributed separately because of the US export
regulations but now is part of the main distribution. See crypt.c for details.
Decryption can be made with unzip 5.0p1 or later, or with zipcloak.

Bug reports.  All bug reports or patches should go to zip-bugs via the web
site contact form at http://www.Info-ZIP.org (we are discontinuing the old
email address zip-bugs@lists.wku.edu because of too much spam lately) and
suggestions for new features can be submitted there also (although we don't
promise to use all of them).  A public discussion group was available at
info-zip@lists.wku.edu but is no longer available.  We are setting up another
email discussion list but for now a web forum exists for discussion.  See the
above web site for details.  Patches should be sent as unified or context
diffs only (diff -u or diff -c).  A way to submit large patches is being
worked but for now contact zip-bugs before submitting a large patch for the
current procedure.

Ports.  If you're considering a port, please check in with zip-bugs FIRST,
since the code is constantly being updated behind the scenes.  We'll
arrange to give you access to the latest source.

Discussion group.  If you'd like to keep up to date with our Zip (and companion
UnZip utility) development, join the ranks of BETA testers, add your own
thoughts and contributions, etc., send a two-line mail message containing the
commands HELP and LIST (on separate lines in the body of the message, not on
the subject line) to mxserver@lists.wku.edu.  You'll receive two messages
listing the various Info-ZIP mailing-list formats which are available (and
also various unrelated lists) and instructions on how to subscribe to one or
more of them (courtesy of Hunter Goatley).  (Currently these are all
discontinued but we are considering implementing new versions.  However, a
discussion group for Info-ZIP issues is at
http://www.quicktopic.com/27/H/V6ZQZ54uKNL and can be used to discuss issues,
request features, and is one place new betas and releases are announced.)

Frequently asked questions on zip and unzip:

Q. When unzipping I get an error message about "compression method 8".

A. Please get the latest version of unzip. See the file 'WHERE' for details.


Q. I can't extract this zip file that I just downloaded. I get
   "zipfile is part of multi-disk archive" or some other message.

A. Please make sure that you made the transfer in binary mode. Check
   in particular that your copy has exactly the same size as the original.
   Note that the above message also may actually mean you have only part
   of a multi-part archive.


Q. When running unzip, I get a message about "End-of-central-directory
   signature not found".

A. This usually means that your zip archive is damaged, or that you
   have an uncompressed file with the same name in the same directory.
   In the first case, it makes more sense to contact the person you
   obtained the zip file from rather than the Info-ZIP software
   developers, and to make sure that your copy is strictly identical to
   the original.  In the second case, use "unzip zipfile.zip" instead
   of "unzip zipfile", to let unzip know which file is the zip archive
   you want to extract.


Q. Why doesn't zip do <something> just like PKZIP does?

A. Zip is not a PKZIP clone and is not intended to be one.  In some
   cases we feel PKZIP does not do the right thing (e.g., not
   including pathnames by default); in some cases the operating system
   itself is responsible (e.g., under Unix it is the shell which
   expands wildcards, not zip).  Info-ZIP's and PKWARE's zipfiles
   are interchangeable, not the programs.

   For example, if you are used to the following PKZIP command:
               pkzip -rP foo *.c
   you must use instead on Unix:
               zip -R foo '*.c'
   (the single quotes are needed to let the shell know that it should
    not expand the *.c argument but instead pass it on to the program,
    but are not needed on ports that do not expand file paths like
    MSDOS)


Q. Can I distribute zip and unzip sources and/or executables?

A. You may redistribute the latest official distributions without any
   modification, without even asking us for permission. You can charge
   for the cost of the media (CDROM, diskettes, etc...) and a small copying
   fee.  If you want to distribute modified versions please contact us at
   www.Info-ZIP.org first. You must not distribute beta versions.
   The latest official distributions are always on ftp.uu.net in directory
   /pub/archiving/zip and subdirectories.


Q. Can I use the executables of zip and unzip to distribute my software?

A. Yes, so long as it is made clear in the product documentation that
   zip or unzip are not being sold, that the source code is freely
   available, and that there are no extra or hidden charges resulting
   from its use by or inclusion with the commercial product. Here is
   an example of a suitable notice:

     NOTE:  <Product> is packaged on this CD using Info-ZIP's compression
     utility.  The installation program uses UnZip to read zip files from
     the CD.  Info-ZIP's software (Zip, UnZip and related utilities) is
     free and can be obtained as source code or executables from various
     anonymous-ftp sites, including ftp.uu.net:/pub/archiving/zip/*.


Q. Can I use the source code of zip and unzip in my commercial application?

A. Yes, so long as you include in your product an acknowledgment and an
   offer of the original compression sources for free or for a small
   copying fee, and make clear that there are no extra or hidden charges
   resulting from the use of the compression code by your product. In other
   words, you are allowed to sell only your own work, not ours. If you have
   special requirements contact us at www.Info-ZIP.org.
