zip 3.0f is a BETA version. Do not distribute outside the Info-ZIP group.

Some ports probably don't work in this beta and Zip 3.0 development so far
has been mainly on Unix, VMS, and Win32 platforms, though some others have
been recently tested.  We hope to get the other ports working by release but
may have to drop support for some ports or operating systems.  If you find
your favorite port is broke, send us the details or, better, send bug fixes.



Copyright (c) 1990-2007 Info-ZIP.  All rights reserved.

See the accompanying file LICENSE (the contents of which are also
included in unzip.h, zip.h and wiz.h) for terms of use.  If, for
some reason, all of these files are missing, the Info-ZIP license
also may be found at:  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html
and http://www.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html.


Zip 3.0 is a compression and file packaging utility.  It is compatible with
PKZIP 2.04g (Phil Katz ZIP) for MSDOS systems.  There is a companion to zip
called unzip (of course) which you should be able to find the same place
you got zip.  See the file 'WHERE' for details on ftp sites and mail
servers.

So far zip has been ported to a wide array of Unix and other mainframes,
minis, and micros including VMS, OS/2, Minix, MSDOS, Windows,
Atari, Amiga, BeOS and VM/CMS.  Although highly compatible with PKware's
PKZIP and PKUNZIP utilities of MSDOS fame, our primary objective has been
one of portability and other-than-MSDOS functionality.  Features not found
in the PKWare version include creation of zip files in a pipe or on a
device, VMS, BeOS and OS/2 extended file attributes, conversion from Unix to
MSDOS text file format; and, of course, the ability to run on most of your
favorite operating systems.  And it's free.

See the file zip30f.ann for a summary of new features, WhatsNew for a more
detailed list of new features and the file CHANGES for a detailed list of
all changes.

Notes:

Multi-volume support.  This version does not support multi-volume spanned
archives as in pkzip 2.04g, and there is no intention at this point to support
spanned archives, but version 3.0 supports split archives.  A split archive
is an archive split into a set of files, each file a piece of the archive
and each file using an extension, such as .z02 as in the file name archive.z02,
that provides the order of the splits.  In contrast, a spanned archive is the
original multi-floppy archive supported by pkzip 2.0g and where the split order
is contained in the volume labels.  The contents of split and spanned archives
are mostly identical and there is a simple procedure to convert between the
formats.  Many current unzips now support split archives.

Zip64 support.  This version supports Zip64 archives as described in the
PKWare AppNote.  These archives use additional fields to support archives
greater than 2 GB and files in archives over the 2 GB previous limit (4 GB
on some ports).  The Zip64 format also allows more than 64k entries in an
archive.  Use of Zip64 is automatic and the Zip64 fields will only be used
if needed.  A Zip64 archive requires a pkzip 4.5 compatible unzip.

Unicode support.  This version has initial Unicode support using a set of
new UTF-8 extra fields.  This allows names of files to be accurately recreated
on OS with sufficient character support.  On Win32, if wide character calls
are supported (not Win 9x unless support has been added) all files should now
be readable by zip.  Also, PKWare has defined a new UTF-8 bit for flagging
the storage of UTF-8 in the entry File Name and Comment fields, and this is
automatically set as needed on systems where UTF-8 is the current character
set.  Currently only Unicode paths are supported, not Unicode comments.
Unicode should be further addressed in a later release.

16-bit OS support.  Though Zip 3.0 is being designed to support the latest
zip standards and modern OS, some effort has been made to maintain some
support for older and smaller systems.  If you find Zip 3.0 does not fit on
or otherwise does not work well on a particular OS, send in the details
and we might be able to help.

Compression methods.  In addition to the standard store and deflate methods,
zip now can support the bzip2 compression format using the bzip2 library.

Installation.  Please read the file INSTALL for information on how to compile
and install zip, zipsplit, zipcloak, and zipnote and please read the manual
pages ZIP.txt, ZIPSPLIT.txt, ZIPCLOAK.txt, and ZIPNOTE.txt for information on
how to use them.  The file "contents" is a complete list of the files
you should have in this distribution (but remains missing in this beta and
should be updated by the release).  Also, if you are using MSDOS, you should
read the note on file formats at the end of the contents file.  In particular,
text files in the distribution are generally in Unix line end format (LF only)
and Windows and DOS users will need to either convert the files as needed to
DOS line ends (CR LF) or extract the distribution contents using unzip -a.

Utilities.  At this point zipsplit, zipcloak, and zipnote should be updated
to work with large files, but additional work may be done by release.  They
currently do not handle split archives and this may not be added to the
utilities before release.  A work around is to use zip to convert a split
archive to a single file archive and then use the utilities on that archive.

Encryption.  This version supports standard zip encryption.  Until recently
the encryption code was distributed separately because of the US export
regulations but now is part of the main distribution.  See crypt.c for
details.  Decryption can be made with unzip 5.0p1 or later, or with zipcloak.

Bug reports.  All bug reports or patches should go to zip-bugs via the web
site contact form at http://www.Info-ZIP.org (we have discontinued the old
email address zip-bugs@lists.wku.edu because of too much spam lately) and
suggestions for new features can be submitted there also (although we don't
promise to use all of them).  Now a new Info-ZIP discussion forum is
available as well, and bug reports can be posted there.  See below.  We also
are on SourceForge at http://sourceforge.net/projects/infozip/ but lately
we only have limited time to monitor the Bug Reports and Feature Requests
there.

Ports.  If you're considering a port, please check in with zip-bugs FIRST,
since the code is constantly being updated behind the scenes.  We'll
arrange to give you access to the latest source.

Discussion group.  If you'd like to keep up to date with our Zip (and companion
UnZip utility) development, join the ranks of BETA testers, add your own
thoughts and contributions, etc., check out the new discussion forum.  This is
the latest offering, after the various Info-ZIP mailing-lists on
mxserver@lists.wku.edu (courtesy of Hunter Goatley) were no longer available
and the temporary QuickTopic discussion group for Info-ZIP issues at
http://www.quicktopic.com/27/H/V6ZQZ54uKNL died a horrible death due to large
amounts of spam.  The new discussion forum is now available at
http://www.info-zip.org/board/board.pl (thanks again to Hunter Goatley) and
can be used to discuss issues, request features, and is one place new betas
and releases are announced.  It also is a place to post bug reports, and
patches can be submitted as attachments.  However, the web site contact form
remains available if you would rather not post on the public forum.

Frequently asked questions on zip and unzip:

Q. When unzipping I get an error message about "compression method 8".

A. This is standard deflate, which has been around for awhile.  Please
   get a current version of unzip.  See the file 'WHERE' for details.


Q. How about "compression method 12"?

A. Compression method 12 is bzip2 and requires a relatively modern unzip.
   Please get the latest version of unzip.


Q. I can't extract this zip file that I just downloaded.  I get
   "zipfile is part of multi-disk archive" or some other message.

A. Please make sure that you made the transfer in binary mode.  Check
   in particular that your copy has exactly the same size as the original.
   Note that the above message also may actually mean you have only part
   of a multi-part archive.


Q. When running unzip, I get a message about "End-of-central-directory
   signature not found".

A. This usually means that your zip archive is damaged, or that you
   have an uncompressed file with the same name in the same directory.
   In the first case, it makes more sense to contact the person you
   obtained the zip file from rather than the Info-ZIP software
   developers, and to make sure that your copy is strictly identical to
   the original.  In the second case, use "unzip zipfile.zip" instead
   of "unzip zipfile", to let unzip know which file is the zip archive
   you want to extract.


Q. Why doesn't zip do <something> just like PKZIP does?

A. Zip is not a PKZIP clone and is not intended to be one.  In some
   cases we feel PKZIP does not do the right thing (e.g., not
   including pathnames by default); in some cases the operating system
   itself is responsible (e.g., under Unix it is the shell which
   expands wildcards, not zip).  Info-ZIP's and PKWARE's zipfiles
   are interchangeable, not the programs.

   For example, if you are used to the following PKZIP command:
               pkzip -rP foo *.c
   you must use instead on Unix:
               zip -R foo "*.c"
   (the quotes are needed to let the shell know that it should
    not expand the *.c argument but instead pass it on to the program,
    but are not needed on ports that do not expand file paths like
    MSDOS)


Q. Can I distribute zip and unzip sources and/or executables?

A. You may redistribute the latest official distributions without any
   modification, without even asking us for permission. You can charge
   for the cost of the media (CDROM, diskettes, etc...) and a small copying
   fee.  If you want to distribute modified versions please contact us at
   www.Info-ZIP.org first. You must not distribute beta versions.
   The latest official distributions are always on ftp.Info-ZIP.org in
   directory /pub/infozip and subdirectories.


Q. Can I use the executables of zip and unzip to distribute my software?

A. Yes, so long as it is made clear in the product documentation that
   zip or unzip are not being sold, that the source code is freely
   available, and that there are no extra or hidden charges resulting
   from its use by or inclusion with the commercial product. Here is
   an example of a suitable notice:

     NOTE:  <Product> is packaged on this CD using Info-ZIP's compression
     utility.  The installation program uses UnZip to read zip files from
     the CD.  Info-ZIP's software (Zip, UnZip and related utilities) is
     free and can be obtained as source code or executables from various
     anonymous-ftp sites, including ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip.


Q. Can I use the source code of zip and unzip in my commercial application?

A. Yes, as long as the conditions in the license are met.  We recommend
   you include in your product an acknowledgment and note that the
   original compression sources are available at www.Info-ZIP.org. If
   you have special requirements contact us at www.Info-ZIP.org.
